# Using RSA authentication with SSH v2 to Linux machines:

## ssh and keys

### Overview

The ssh software (which consists of `ssh`, `scp`, and `sftp`) that we
(and almost all Linux systems) use supports authentication by passwords
or key pairs. Key pairs have the following advantages over simple
passwords:

1.  Passwords are less secure than key pairs
2.  Password logins are now disabled many systems, in particular:
      - SEAS computational cluster
      - Git server for the Jacob group web sites

Using ssh keys is not difficult if you understand the basic concepts and
available tools. There is a command to generate an asymmetric key pair.
A key pair consists of a private key and public key.

### Private keys

**Your private key will only be installed on the machine from which you
are trying to connect to the Unix environment (i.e. your PC or Mac).**

Private means just that. The private key should never be exposed for any
reason and does not need to reside on a public or multi-user system at
all. All you really need to work interactively is a private key on your
PC or Mac and a public key on another system.

### Public keys

**Public keys will be installed on the Unix environnent(s) that you are
trying to connect to.**

The public key can be installed anywhere and can even be sent via email
if necessary. All you have to do is to cut-n-paste the each public key
into the file `/home/.ssh/YOUR_LOGIN_ID/.ssh/authorized_keys` in your
Unix environment.

### Assign a password to your private key\!

When you generate a public/private key pair, you will be given the
opportunity to create a password (sometimes called "passphrase") for the
private key. The password encrypts the private key and makes it more
difficult to use if it is stolen (e.g. if your machine is stolen or
hacked).

When using ssh with such a key, you would normally be prompted for the
password, but MacOSX provides a keychain, and the password for the ssh
key can be added to your keychain the first time you use it. Once you
provide the password for your keychain, which youâ€™re likely to do for
other things anyway, you can use the private key without typing the
password until you lock the keychain by rebooting or logging out. Linux
provides a similar capability.

The public key will permit you to log in using the key pair when it is
placed in your `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`. You can copy and paste the
contents of `id_rsa.pub` or copy the file itself to a remote system and
then copy it to authorized\_keys or append to authorized\_keys using the
cat command. Make certain that your copy-paste operation does not
introduce carriage returns into the key the public key entry in
authorized\_keys should all be on one line. The authorized\_keys file
itself does not need to be read-protected, but the .ssh directory
containing it should be protected (`chmod 700 ~/.ssh`). An
authorized\_keys file can contain more than one public key, useful if
you are connecting to the Unix environment from more than one PC or Mac.

### Hazards

Placing a private key on a public system increases the risk of a
compromise and should be avoided. In particular, if your private key
became readable by others for some reason, or if a system containing
your private key were ever compromised, your private key could be stolen
and used to access any account on which you had installed the
corresponding public key.

Avoid storing private keys anyplace other than your personal system. If
you think you need to keep a private key on one of our systems, please
consult with jhy about it. There might be a simple and more secure
alternative, and a private key on a remote system is rarely needed.

## Generating public and private keys

### For PC Users

#### With MobaXterm and FileZilla

We recommend that you use the [MobaXterm terminal
software](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/) and the [FileZilla file
transfer software](https://filezilla-project.org/Filezilla).

You can use MobaXterm to create your public/private key pair. For more
information, please see this video:
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sVdbJcX2B10>

\--- *GEOS-Chem Support Team 2020/03/02 22:15*

#### With Cygwin

If you are an advanced PC user, you may prefer to install the Cygwin
enviroment (<http://www.cygwin.com/>) to use Linux commands (including
openssh) on a Windows system. We recommend using MobaXterm, as it's much
simpler.

\--- *GEOS-Chem Support Team 2020/03/02 22:19*

### For Linux or Mac users

On Linux and MacOSX systems, the command to generate a key pair is
called `ssh-keygen`. It uses RSA encryption by default. `ssh-keygen` can
be called as follows:

    ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048

The private key will be named `id_rsa` and the public key will be named
`id_rsa.pub`. These files will be stored in your `~/.ssh` directory.

`id_rsa` is the private key, and it should be read-protected against
anyone but you (`chmod 600 /path/to/id_rsa`), and it should never reside
anyplace where it can be read by anyone else. It is yours, exclusively.
`id_rsa.pub` contains the public key that is used to give you permission
to log into other systems.

The `-b 2048` sets up 2048-bit encryption, which is more secure than the
default (1028-bit) setting.

## Installing public keys: Connecting from your PC or Mac to a Linux machine

By this point you should have done the following:

1.  Created a private key and stored it in your `~/.ssh` directory on
    your PC or Mac
2.  Created a public key 

Now you need to copy the public key to each Linux machine (or cluster)
where we'd like to login. Let's assume we want to login to the
Jacob-group cluster (e.g. Sol, Argus, etc). You can use the same
procedure listed below to login to other cluster (e.g. SEAS, HPC, etc.)

Login to `USER@USER.as.harvard.edu` (or `USER@login.as.harvard.edu`) and
then do the following sequence:

    cd ~/.ssh
    emacs authorized_keys

Then cut & paste the contents of your public key (e.g. `id_rsa.pub`)
into the authorized\_keys file. Make sure there are no carriage returns
between the lines, as the public key should be one long string.

\--- *[Bob Yantosca](yantosca@seas.harvard.edu) 2014/10/16 16:17*

### For PC users

[MobaXterm
documentation](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/documentation.html)

### For Mac Users

**1.** Make sure that an X11 server is installed on your Mac. X11 no
longer is packaged with MacOS X and higher operating system versions.

  - For more information, see: <http://support.apple.com/kb/ht5293>
  - You can install the Xquartz X11 server from this website:
    <http://xquartz.macosforge.org/landing/>

**2.** Open a terminal window.

**3.** Connect to the Atmospheric Sciences cluster with this command:

    ssh -Y -A USER@USER.as.harvard.edu   or
    ssh -Y -A USER@login.as.harvard.edu

Where

1.  The `-Y` command enables trusted X11 forwarding (i.e. so that you
    can open other X-terminal windows from this connection).
2.  The `-A` enables [SSH Agent
    Forwarding](#SSH%20Agent%20and%20Agent%20Forwarding), which is
    described in the next section.

If you wish to login to the SEAS cluster from the Jacob-Group cluster,
then make sure you copy your public key to the `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`
file on `login.seas.harvard.edu`. Then you can log innto the SEAS
cluster with:

    ssh -Y -A USER@login.seas.harvard.edu

\--- *[Bob Yantosca](yantosca@seas.harvard.edu) 2014/10/16 16:15*

## SSH Agent and Agent Forwarding

Placing the public key in `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` enables ssh login and
scp to a remote system from the system using the private key (your PC).
But if you want to connect from that remote system to a second remote
system, you can still use the same private key on your PC by invoking
ssh agent.

If your private key has a password attached to it, then you will be
prompted to supply the password once. Then as long as the ssh-agent
software is open, you will not need to supply the password again.

### For PC users

We recommend that you use the MobaXterm terminal software for connecting
from your PC to Cannon. You can use MobaXterm to create your
public/private key pair. For more information, please see this video:
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sVdbJcX2B10>

\--- *GEOS-Chem Support Team 2020/03/02 22:15*

### For Linux or Mac Users

To enable the agent when you login to your Unix login environment from a
MacOSX or Linux system, use the `-A` option to ssh:

    ssh -A USER@some.machine

For example, you could log into your Unix environment from your Linux PC
or Mac with:

    ssh -A USER@USER.as.harvard.edu

then if you wanted to login from your Unix environment to a second
machine (such as login.seas.harvard.edu), type:

``` 
ssh -A USER@login.seas.harvard.edu 
```

The login to the second machine still relies on the private key on your
Linux PC or Mac (the agent refers back to the previous link in the
chain, so your private key never leaves your PC). If you wanted to
enable X11 forwarding you could use the `-X` or `-Y` command in addition
to `-A`.

If you used:

``` 
ssh -A USER@USER.as.harvard.edu
ssh -A USER@login.seas.harvard.edu 
```

you could then get from Rhea to a third system, like Odyssey. All you
need to access any remote Linux system is your public key in
`~/.ssh/authorized_keys` on that system. If several systems share a home
directory, like our local systems and the SEAS systems, placing a public
key on one will give you access to all.

\--- *[Bob Yantosca](yantosca@seas.harvard.edu) 2014/10/16 15:45*

## Return to Menu

  - [Go to Harvard Atmospheric Sciences Wiki Home](/start)
  - [Go to "The Basics" Menu](/wiki/basics)
  - [Go to Network Resources Menu](/wiki/computer_and_network_info)
